* ♪
Victor lied
about his health
and his Strigoi daughter.
Call upon me,
and I shall serve.
Sonya healed me
because she believed in me.
You don't get to play
the loving husband
and father now.
I know I need
to get my quorum back,
to marry,
and to learn,
and all of that
will take time,
but I have a proposal for you.
I hereby declare
Vasilissa Dragomir
heir to the throne.
Guardian Belikov,
you are under arrest.
I'm the one
that helped Sasha escape.
The punishment for treason
is very serious.
I'm leaving.
I need to figure out
who I am outside of you.
- This isn't goodbye.
- No.
It's just see you later.
I thought somewhere inside,
you must still love me.
We came here to feed.
I'm done playing nice.
Now we're doing things
my way, Andre.
This is not a drill.
This is
what you've been training for.
Be brave.
Show them no mercy,
for you will receive none.
Hurry! Hurry, run!
Come on! Keep moving!
Come on! This way!
Get out!
Keep moving!
Go, go!
Where are we supposed to go?
- Hold my hand!
- I don't want to die!
- Out of the way!
- Let's go! Let's go!
- Miss!
- Close the door!
Lady Dragomir, we need
to get you and the queen
to a defensible location now.
- Go.
- But you're hurt.
Go!
Evacuation zone protocol
is in place.
See Guardians
for instructions.
This is insane.
There aren't enough buses.
Just stay with me.
Hey, wait. Where do you
think you're going?
You guys can't leave
without resealing the wards.
- Can't do it.
- Of course you can.
I've seen how.
I've seen the stake.
The stake is missing.
Without it,
we can't seal the wards.
Get out while you can,
both of you.
I did this.
This is all my fault.
It's not your fault
your parents are terrible.
Parents suck.
Come on, this one.
Hey!
- This one.
- No, I need to be on that bus.
Non-Royals in the next wave.
We're sticking
with that distinction
even during a fucking invasion?
After the Royals
are evacuated,
the buses will return.
Now, step aside.
- She can just have my place!
I said move on!
You should be on that bus.
Me?
I'm going to the archives.
The archives,
in a tunnel
where there could be
any number of Strigoi hiding?
Well, the sun's
gonna come out soon
and we'll be safe
during the day,
but if we don't seal the wards
by tomorrow night,
we're done.
Mia!
I've been looking
all over for you.
Can you ever forgive me?
I'm not the one
that you should be asking.
Mia.
Mia, please.
Mia, wait!
Mia!
- What the fuck?
- It's true.
One of the Queen's drivers
owed me money from a bet,
so I got
driving lessons instead.
And the car?
The guy owed money
all over the Dominion,
so I bought his paper
in exchange for this baby.
You're a real mastermind.
Ooh, maybe we should go
to Las Vegas.
- Burn it up.
- Mm-hmm.
I wonder if I can
sense Lissa from there.
Are you now?
Mm...
Just that something's up.
And everything in me
wants to race back, but...
she can take care
of herself now, right?
And she has Dimitri anyhow, so...
Well, not exactly.
You should be on a bus,
not hunkering here with me.
This is my place,
especially now.
Has anything like this
ever happened before?
No.
I remember discussing
the protocol for evacuation
with your brother
when he became heir.
I never thought
it would actually happen.
Your feeder, Your Majesty.
How can you be so calm?
Victor won the trials,
saying a good ruler
must give up everything
for their subjects.
Sometimes it means
ignoring your own fear.
Something special?
It's from Christian.
After all
the marriage stuff, he...
I'm sorry.
Right now
is not the time to dwell.
I find
the Marriage Marking Ceremony
quite beautiful.
You?
I didn't think I would...
but yes.
There are such things
as happy surprises,
and there's always hope.
And sometimes the only thing
a good monarch has
is the ability
to project that belief
even when all you want to do
is weep.
I think it's getting lighter.
And in daylight,
the Guardians
will regain control.
You see, hope is nigh.
She's dead, Your Majesty.
I'm suddenly
so terribly cold.
It looks like poison.
- From the moment I arrived
in the Dominion,
I liked you, Andre.
When I ordered the Ozeras
to attack your limo,
you were my target.
I plan to be queen,
and you're going to help me.
- I would die first.
- Then Lissa will be second.
It's entirely your choice.
Without me,
there's no obvious next heir.
Victor Dashkov is a follower,
not a leader,
but he'll never
support a stranger.
That's why I plan to appeal
to the High Priestess
and the Elementalists.
I'll put on a show of faith,
instill fear,
play up the Strigoi threat,
then insist I'm the only one
who can keep them safe.
Is there any legal impediment
you know of to me being queen?
Not as a Vogel.
There's an arcane decree
that requires the heir
to have a quorum,
but the Vogels
are a large family.
You should be fine.
You couldn't know
your advice would lead
to the attack on St. Jude's
and cheat Lissa out
of the crown.
Without a quorum,
you cannot sit on the throne.
All in all,
you've been very helpful.
All building interiors need
to be evacuated immediately.
It is not safe to remain.
I have one question.
What's the emergency protocol
for succession?
Do all heads of family
need to vote?
By all, you mean...
Let me put him out
of his misery.
Mm-mm-mm.
Not until I say.
You'll still need me.
Ruling a divided Dominion
won't be easy.
They can fight all they want.
I won't be queen for long.
You've only ever talked
about getting the throne,
never ruling.
You don't want to be queen.
What do you want?
I want you
to shut your mouth.
You'll leave him alone
until I say.
If, in an emergency session...
You move like a Dhampir.
It's not possible for all
Council members to vote...
The vote
should be rescheduled.
Darling...
you've known me long enough.
Lissa's fair game if
you don't give me what I want.
Answer me.
In the event
of the absence...
Or death
of one or more
of the Council members...
The remaining members can agree
to call for a vote.
Strigoi are hiding
in buildings.
You're safer outside
until sundown.
This is a shitshow.
I thought
you'd be miles away by now.
I was worried about Lissa.
Where is she?
She's fine.
She's with the Queen.
She's under protection.
Are all these people
waiting to be evacuated?
The Royals got
the first buses out.
Cover up!
You're safer in the sun.
We just got news
that the buses arrived
at their destinations,
but they're idling
at the tarmac.
Apparently some of the Royals
aren't comfortable
walking 30 fucking feet
in the sun to the plane.
They're waiting till dusk.
They're not coming back?
I know they'd do this
to Dhampirs,
but they're not coming back
for Moroi?
Our only option is to stay
and protect them here.
Like fish in a barrel.
It's suicide.
And what do you
suggest, Rose?
If you know of another way,
we'd all love to hear it.
Actually, there is.
I mean, there might be a way.
There's...
a tunnel.
No one ever uses it.
Goes almost to the tarmac.
Christian reads
those old books.
I read maps, okay?
- Yeah, so do I.
And it's not on any
I've ever seen.
What the fuck, Meredith?
Well, obviously
it's gonna have
to be cleared first because...
It's the perfect place
for Strigoi to hide
during the day.
That's a suicide mission.
Not if you happen to know
when they might be coming
around the bend.
All right.
Who's coming with me?
It should be Dimitri.
He has more experience.
I'll go up top
and cover the entrance.
Be safe, Rose.
Let's go.
Come on.
Good luck.
Okay.
That was impressive...
and kind of disgusting.
And this place is off-limits.
I know, but I heard you lost
a stake that opens the wards.
In the 15th century,
Saint Vladimir himself
made one unique
to each province.
I would not lose such
an object; it was stolen.
Go find a bus.
- No.
We have to defend this place.
- By tonight,
there won't be a province
to defend.
- Not if we make a new stake.
- It's impossible.
We have tried.
- With what? How?
Look, maybe I can help.
Can you at least tell me
how it's made?
Oh, so you can tell
your Strigoi mother?
So I can make up
for what my parents did.
And how would you know
anything we don't?
Because I read...
Stuff that you would
excommunicate me for.
We repeat,
avoid all covered corridors
void of any light.
Follow the Guardians...
It's heresy, you know,
to murder a queen.
I'm sorry, Your Majesty.
Your doctor is missing.
And the Royals
took theirs with them.
There are no doctors anywhere.
But there has to be.
Thank you, Guardian.
Your hand feels so warm.
And you are so strong.
You'll be fine.
One of a queen's duties
is to face reality.
Though I should be fading fast,
it will come.
No, I won't lose you too.
How I wish that were true.
Forgive me, Your Majesty.
I wouldn't leave you,
but there are
Strigoi mobilizing
in the shadows
of the castle.
They need us at the entrance.
Of course they do, Felix.
You're one of our best.
It's been an honor,
Your Majesty.
For us both.
- Stay still.
- Oh!
You going all tough girl again
now that she's gone?
Ah, yeah.
I'd be cranky too if I
just had my ass handed to me.
Ah-ah-ah.
You're not supposed
to kill me yet.
Ow.
It's not safe.
They're getting closer.
We need to leave.
Not we.
You.
They weren't just after me, Vasilissa.
Take her cape.
In your marriage preparations,
did you ever
give Christian a gift?
A Dragomir necklace.
Why?
Then you have completed
the three marriage rituals.
No, Christian never
actually gave me his gift.
Didn't he?
In the eyes of the church,
you are married.
In the eyes of the state,
you have your quorum.
The Council could
vote you queen this day.
But I need more time
to learn from you.
I'm--I'm not ready to be queen.
No one ever is.
But remember,
you're a Dragomir.
Now, go!
I'll cover you.
One last blast of air power
to show them what's what.
I'll never forget you.
I bloody well hope not.
Go!
Okay.
Mason and his team
will guard the entrance.
Another crew of Guardians
will meet you at the other end.
Once it's clear, we'll start
the second wave of evacuations,
if there's anyone left
to evacuate.
- Meredith--
- Please don't ask me again
how I know about this tunnel.
- I'm not.
I just want to say
that Mia will be fine.
If you don't clear
those tunnels before sunset,
no one else will.
Okay.
"The stakes were anointed
by the Blood of the Four
and imbued by the Paraclete."
A helper,
presumably
Saint Vladimir himself.
Okay, but imbued?
It's a tricky word.
We tried
to replicate the stakes
with blood from Moroi
who specialize
in each of the Four Elements,
then added the blood
of the monk making them.
We even tried with
Saint Vladimir's own blood,
wasting the little we had
with no success.
Wait, what--
what if Vladimir used
something other than blood,
something... rarer?
I think your stakes
aren't working
because the original stakes
were imbued by Vladimir
but not with blood.
He was a Spirit User.
I think he imbued
the stakes with Spirit...
The Fifth Element.
What you are saying
is blasphemy.
And if I'm right,
it would save
a lot of innocent lives.
Why did you read these books?
To understand
what my parents did.
There are no excuses
for that.
- Yeah.
- But...
it is not easy to accept
that for some things,
there are no answers.
Your father was sick.
Your parents
came to me for counsel
when they knew that...
death would part them.
I didn't know he was sick.
They must have wanted
to spare you.
And I suppose the lure
of being together forever
was too much.
It was wrong,
but they weren't the only ones
ever to make that choice.
You can start with my blood.
I'm Air.
Only a monk can wield a blade
of this nature.
And how does one
become a monk?
In this Dominion,
a Moroi is a monk
when I say they are.
Lissa?
Wait, what happened?
I was hiding in the cistern
with a bunch of students.
And there was a Strigoi attack,
and then a stampede,
and some fucking idiot
crushed my foot.
- Okay, well, I can--
- No, no, no.
No healing.
Hey, no crying either.
If you start, I'll start,
and I don't think
I'll ever stop.
Mia, they poisoned the Queen.
I tried to heal her,
but it's not like a wound.
I wanted to,
but I couldn't cure her.
And she said
they're after me too.
Then you can't stay here.
You need to take that off.
You're a big enough target
as it is.
We need to get you
to another province
until the wards are back up.
I don't see how
without any buses.
No, I know.
I think I have an idea.
Come on.
- You okay?
- Mm-hmm.
- Okay.
- Let's go.
You could've been miles away
by now.
Wondering where you were.
Where do you even live?
Between here
and The Shambles,
I get by.
What's this from?
A love letter from my father.
What's he got against you?
Now and then, I...
I leave the wards...
And I find some human.
And I bite,
and I feed...
as much as I want
and in the way that I want.
And I don't stop until...
Until just before they die.
That's the only thing
that's really--
That really separates me
from a Strigoi.
I've tried to stop,
but I can't.
What do you think
those are for?
Not polite feeding rooms
and dabbing blood
with a hankie.
The Moroi spend their lives
repressing themselves,
and then they feel the need
to repress everyone else.
You're not in the wrong.
They are.
It's not safe
for you to stay.
Then let's get out of here.
Both of us?
What are these?
Alchemist symbols.
Alchemists?
Per the human treaty,
it's their job to keep us
a secret in the human world
and to provide the Moroi
with feeders.
How have I
never heard of them?
Only heads of families
and upper-level Guardians
know about them.
Alchemists think
Moroi and Dhampirs are evil,
an abomination
against their god.
Then what are they
doing here?
And how the hell did Meredith
know about this place?
I don't know.
But if you ever
see one of these out
in the human world
with Mason,
run.
He's a good guy.
He is.
Why didn't you tell me
you were facing prison?
you were going AWOL?
And why in the name
of the Saints
did you come back?
You were safe.
- What about Lissa?
If you're in the dungeon,
is she safe?
What happened
to "they come first"?
Don't lecture me about duty.
Really?
Because I've had nothing
but lectures from you
since we first met.
Maybe because
you had a lot to learn.
And maybe because you like
to tell me what to do.
You think you know me
so well, but you--
I do know you.
What's my favorite food?
Anyone knows that.
Pizza.
What's my favorite book?
That's not fair.
You have too many.
The Queen is dead.
The royal census taker
confirmed it.
The Queen is dead.
Long live--
Oh, sod that, Peter.
We need to get out of here.
Do we even have a plan?
Stop that!
Guardians!
We need Guardians!
- Open up!
- Where are the Guardians?
Open that door!
You've got company.
We need your car.
Fuck off.
Jesse.
Fine.
We'll all go.
Okay.
Fuck, Mia.
Pick up the pace.
Don't be
a fucking dick, Jesse.
Thank you, Jesse,
for your profound generosity
during these troubled times.
Jesse.
Finally.
Where the fuck have you been?
- Dad, I--
- Right, Lissa can stay.
The rest of you, get out.
There's room for everyone
if we just move up.
Not her.
It's certain
fucking death out there.
Well, that's her problem,
isn't it?
I'm not getting in
until she gets out.
She's a filthy
fucking blood whore.
You really need to get in.
Oh, don't start with your
pathetic pleas for clemency.
But, Lord Zeklos, please--
Aah!
Jesse!
Son.
- Sorry, no room.
There it is,
up ahead.
What's
"Long Walk to Freedom"?
It's an autobiography,
written by a great human.
You read a lot about them.
I do.
Why?
Even in the worst
possible circumstances,
they seem
to have the ability
to believe
something better is possible.
I envy it.
There is more grace
in that hope
than all the prayers
I've ever uttered.
You can't make a world
you can't envision.
You have that ability.
It's one of the things
that I love--
Get off him!
You'll be okay.
The high will pass.
Look at them.
At sunset, they're all just
sitting ducks to the Strigoi.
Stop the car.
It's not safe.
It's Eddie.
He's wounded.
There are so many people here
who are wounded and scared,
and they can't just
drive out of here.
I'm sorry,
but I can't leave.
Queen Marina didn't.
And look
what happened to her.
This is my place,
especially now.
Thank you, Jesse.
Wait.
Oh, fuck.
What?
I'm not gonna let you
do this alone.
Thanks, Jesse.
You're not always
a complete dick.
Hey, try not
to get yourselves killed.
Don't worry.
It's gonna be okay.
It was an honor to fight
with such a skilled Guardian.
Me too.
Let's go.
I brought backup.
We can start
evacuating the Moroi.
All right, Mia.
It's your turn.
Come on.
- No, you've done too much.
Lissa, what about the Darkness?
- It's okay.
I know now that healing
doesn't fill me with Darkness.
It just takes my light.
Spirit needs light.
But you're still pushing it.
Lissa, you have to rest.
I was taking Rose's.
I saved Rose
in the car accident.
So now we have...
this link.
Like Sonya with
all the birds that she saved?
And I called her the bird lady.
She knew
how much you loved her...
Just like I knew
how much Andre loved me.
I'm glad you know.
I should have known
all this healing
would mean a visit from you.
- Andre.
- Mia.
No, this can't be real.
It is.
Oh, Andre.
I never thought
I would see you again.
I'm here, Lissa.
I'm here.
But how?
Where have you been?
I'll tell you everything
in time.
And I know
what you've been through.
I am so proud of you.
But you have to get out
of the Dominion now.
Tatiana isn't
who she says she is.
It's not safe.
Aah!
No, no, no, no!
Rose!
Aah!
No!
Andre!
No, no!
No, no, Andre!!
Andre, please stay with me!
Stay with me!
No!
No, no!
We have to hold the line
until the wards go back up.
They're just waiting for sunset
to attack.
We can't let them through.
Mia.
The evacuation has begun.
There are teams
leading them through.
At least some will make it
through the night.
Mia, I...
Hey, look,
I know it's a lot to ask,
but if this works,
I go to the ward line,
I use the stake and the pillar,
and we can close the wards.
And if it doesn't,
the Strigoi keep coming.
Will you try?
I want to,
but I just don't think
I have anything left to give.
Lissa!
- Andre, he--
- I know.
They're here.
Fan out.
It's time.
Let's go.
It's now or never, Lissa.
You're not alone.
We can do this together.
Dimitri!
I'll get her somewhere safe.
Christian, I'll cover you.
Go!
Sonya?
It's you.
You know I love you,
don't you?
Can you ever forgive me?
Christian!
Go, go, go!
Meredith, incoming!
No!
Mason.
Whoo!
Mason's down!
- Mason.
- Oh, no, no.
We have to get him
to the infirmary.
No, Rose,
you have to find Dimitri
and get Lissa out
of the Dominion.
No--
Mason would understand.
♪ Love is like a flame ♪
♪ That burns out of control ♪
♪ It feels so warm ♪
♪ But it's a dangerous thing ♪
This Dominion
was nearly lost.
Today was everything
I've been warning of.
Thankfully I was prepared.
And we are still standing.
Someone asked me why
I worked so hard to be queen,
and the answer is simple.
Why does anyone do anything?
For love.
And so, with the unanimous vote
of the Council...
I consent to be your queen.
♪ I'm walking on fire ♪
♪ I'm dancing in the smoke ♪
♪ Running over coal ♪
♪ Look into my eyes ♪
♪ Baby, I can make them glow ♪
♪ I'm walking on fire ♪
- And a word for all members
of the Dominion.
If anyone knows
the whereabouts
of Vasilissa Dragomir,
she's wanted for questioning
in the assassination
of Queen Marina.
♪ I'm walking on fire ♪
Mason is, um...
He's in surgery.
Stay.
Yeah.
- Hey.
Am I going somewhere?
And last time I looked,
I was in a ball gown.
That wasn't me.
That was Rose.
We're getting you out
of the Dominion.
Tatiana's calling you
a person of interest
in the death
of Queen Marina.
No one would actually
think that I--
You were the last one
with her.
Someone poisoned
Queen Marina, and...
now they're coming after you.
Tatiana.
Andre said she wasn't
who she says she is.
He told me
as he handed me this,
but I have no idea what it is.
So...
Where are we going?
I'm not.
My aunt was killed
in the fighting,
which means
I'm the new head of my family.
I know I'll never be able
to make up for all of this.
You don't have to.
Still, I have to try.
Once I go,
I don't know if I'll ever
be free to come back.
I know.
And if we never
see each other again,
I want you to know that--
We're married.
- What?
- Yeah.
Queen Marina said
the primer you gave me
counts as a gift,
and so, according to her,
we're married.
Oh.
Well, according
to High Priestess Irene...
I'm a monk.
It was the only way
I could wield the stake, so...
It's all kind of messy.
You will see me again.
Good.
Because whatever happens...
I love you.
I love you too.
Wait, are monks
allowed to kiss?
Let's live dangerously.
All I'm saying is,
you're not driving.
You don't even know
if I can drive.
The thought of waking up
to you every morning,
that face full of sleep...
Even in the human world,
we were chased down.
There is no out there
or in here for us now.
There's just the world.
None of it's safe for Lissa.
Until Tatiana
is taken down...
And order is restored
in the Dominion.
Protection comes in many forms.
You need to fight
for Lissa here.
It would have been...
Everything.
Rose, I could come.
But then
you'd be someone else.
Maybe someone
you like better.
But someone I'm not.
No.
You are everything I never
wanted to fall in love with.
You too, Roza.
Rose.
I know
what you're going to say.
I have to go.
- Of course you do.
Take care of her,
and take care of yourself.
If you ever need anything
when you're out there,
anything at all,
call this number.
Be safe, love.
Hey.
Who is this?
Your father.
I hope you know
how to drive this thing.
I'm not sure,
but what the hell?
It's worth a shot, right?
This is nothing
like we ever planned
when we talked
about getting out of here.
We're nothing like the
two girls who made those plans.
You ready?
What do you think?
♪ Ashes to ashes ♪
♪ All falls down ♪
♪ Sons of the wicked
burned this town ♪
♪ Running for light
in this darkness ♪
♪ Things will never
be the same ♪
♪ Everything we had
in flames ♪
♪ Watch the embers burning
behind me ♪
♪ Flame ♪
♪ I'll see you
on the other side ♪
* ♪